it's the greatest tragedy in the history
of medicine I I I I just once people
wake up to realize what I am saying and
I tell you everything this I show you
all the evidence I did the experiments I
show the efficacy can't be true can't be
true why I don't understand how some
oncologists or even Physicians would say
that glucose has nothing to do uh with
the growth of the tumor it absolutely
does it's in the literature most
important drug that we know of to manage
cancer is not being used because they
didn't do it right interference with
what I'm saying has nothing to do with
science it has to do with policy and
acceptance of the scientific facts not
the science itself the science to my
mind is quite
solid Dr Thomas sea is a professor of
biology genetics and biochemistry and
his remarkable work and research has
changed our understanding of cancer Dr
CIT than thank you very much for being
with us today and my first question for
you Professor is cancer is the second
leading cause of death worldwide with
millions of documented cases each year
and millions of death each year uh in
fact in your book you suspect that
cancer will be the leading cause of
death in industrial society overtaking
cardiovascular disease as the leading
cause of death in your opinion what is
the reason behind this search of cancer
thank you very much for having me today
uh and it's a pleasure for me to answer
you your questions uh yes and in some
countries already uh in China I believe
cancer has surpassed cardiovascular
disease uh as the number one killer and
I and I think you're correct I the
trajectory says that it will probably
overtake uh heart disease in in in many
industrialized countries and unless
something is done um in the United
States the new information just was
released by the American Cancer so
Society tell telling us that uh over
612,000
Americans will die from cancer in
20125 uh which comes out to be
1,700 persons a day and if you go by the
hour that means about 70 people per hour
will be dying from cancer in the United
States so and it's getting worse it's
not getting better um so what is
responsible uh for this uh incredible uh
increase H in cancer H as you said well
it's never one thing when you have a a
disaster like this or an epidemic of of
whatever it is never just one thing that
contributes uh uh to the crisis or to
the um to the disaster let's put it that
way and this is a a medical disaster of
monumental proportions
um we're seeing younger and younger
people getting cancer so clearly uh we
have an issue with that but we have
several several biological
explanations and we have um policy uh
knowledge
explanations uh and let's go through the
explanations for why we have an increase
continued increase uh in in cancer um
the Obesity epidemic
is now uh replacing smoking as a major
risk factor for cancer um obesity is
linked to type 2 diabetes and systemic
inflammation in the body uh systemic
inflammation damages mitochondria
mitochondria is the organel in the cell
that's responsible for efficient energy
production uh that or uh disruption of
that organ's ability to produce energy
efficiently is the origin of cancer so
um when that organel becomes corrupted
in a variety of different ways from
inflammation from radiation from
chemical carcinogens from oncogenic
viruses um uh intermittent hypoxia as I
said these kinds of things and age by
itself AG aging uh any one of these
provocative uh agents can interrupt the
function of Energy Efficiency leading to
compensatory glucose and glutamine d
driven fermentation and disregulated
cell growth um uh so that's the origin
of cancer now why is it that that the
the numbers keep keep increasing and the
deaths the deaths keep increasing
because the uh World cancer institutes
from the National Cancer Institute in
the United States to the NHS in England
to all the major uh academic and and
research centers they all are under the
belief that cancer is a gentic disease
and when you take the world power of of
of treatment and focus on something
other than what the disease is you have
no successful management so um so when
you say when people say cancer is a
genetic disease they seem they're
focusing on things that are not uh
Central uh to the problem most of this
stuff is secondary Downstream effects
the mutations that we see in cancer this
the development of precision medicines
try to Target these mutations and the
consequences of the mutations all of
this is Downstream epip phenomena uh if
it's not Central to the problem then the
problem persists the problem does not go
away we know that cancer is driven by a
fermentation metabolism that's energy
without oxygen and the fuels for that
are the sugar glucose and the amino acid
uh glutamine and we know that the cancer
cells cannot burn fatty acids or Ketone
bodies so once you realize that all
cancers that we have looked at have a
problem in generating energy through
oxygen and are all dependent to some
degree or another on fermentation of two
different fuels and cannot burn fatty
acids or Ketone bodies then the
appropriate uh approach to managing the
disorder is to simultaneously restrict
the two fuels driving fermentation and
transition the whole body over to a fuel
Ketone bodies and fatty acids that the
cancer cells can't use and then they
will gradually be eliminated slowly and
and this will drop the death rate and
will make cancer a very manageable
disease but the reason why that's not
being done is because the field thinks
cancer is a genetic disease and they're
not focusing on what I say and then and
why is that because ideological Dogma
people have been indoctrinated into
thinking Cancers and genetic disease and
any form of
indoctrination whether it's political
religious or scientific prevents the
brain from being rational you you have
to have rational thinking to break
through Dogma that's the way I look at
it and as long as people are dogmatic in
thinking cancer is a genetic disease the
numbers of dead people will continue to
increase year in and year out that
pretty much
summarizes uh uh a hundred years of
scientific research uh uh in this area
you explained it very clearly thank you
for this detailed answer and in
pathophysiological ter what is the
origin of
cancer the origin of cancer comes from
carcinogens it comes from intermittent
hypoxia it comes from systemic
inflammation it come from uh oncogenic
viruses there's a lot of ways to damage
oxidative phosphorilation doeses chronic
consumption of Highly processed
carbohydrate leads to mitochondrial
dysfunction leads to systemic
inflammation inflammatory cyto kindes
can damage mitochondria okay so so it's
the it's the mechanism by which
mitochondria damage can cancer cells
survive without glucose and only
glutamine um they can survive but they
can't grow um so uh if I take away the
glucose uh the glutamine will keep them
alive uh to some extent uh but they
can't grow because they need the carbons
from the glucose molecule to grow if I
have glucose and take away the glutamine
the cancer cell can
survive uh but it can't grow because it
needs the nitrogen from the amino acid
to to grow to make new DNA and RNA it's
the it's the two fuels together that are
absolutely essential for the continued
uh disregulated growth and there's a lot
of confusion about uh glucose what does
glucose do to the mitochondria glucose
fuels mitochondria you and I are burning
glucose right now in our mitochondria
okay but if we had cancer glucose would
be fueling the cancer as well so uh but
the cancer cell needs the glucose
absolutely it's requirement uh our
normal cells can switch to fatty acids
and Ketone bodies which the cancer cell
cannot use so then you can marginalize
the ability of that cell to survive by
taking away the glucose and also the
glutamine it has to be done together
because because some cancers require
more glucose than glutamine other
cancers more glutamine than glucose so
if I take away both fuels simultaneously
and transition the body over to ketosis
nutritional ketosis then you can um kill
the cancer cells but you you have to be
careful because glutamine is an
essential amino acid required for the
health of our gut and our immune system
that's why we develop the Press pulse
therapeutic strategy which chronically
stresses glucose availability but
intermittently targets glutamine because
kill cancer cell keep immune system
healthy kill cancer cell keep immune
cells and the gut healthy kill cancer
cells keep the immune so on off on off
on off on off it's a pulsing pulsing
pulsing pulsing if you try to
chronically Target glutamine you
paralyze the immune system and damage
the gut so you have to know basic
physiology of all organ systems how they
work together and the vulnerability uh
of the tumor cell and B based on that
understanding all major cancers can be
managed whether or not they can be cured
I don't know but we can certainly manage
them uh more effectively without
toxicity that's important is not a
carcinogen and people have to realize
that they misunderstand what glucose is
if you have cancer then glucose becomes
a fuel but glucose is not participatory
in the origin of cancer what glucose can
do is it can contribute to diabetes and
obesity which create inflammation in the
bloodstream which then damages oxidative
F but glucose itself is not a carcinogen
but glucose is if you have cancer which
is disregulated cell growth glucose is
the fuel driving disregulated cell
growth so if you take away glucose that
shuts down a primary fuel for the
disregulated growth but not the other
fuel you got to Target glutamine as well
and how do we prevent or lower our risk
of
cancer put it this way it's very very
difficult to get cancer if the
mitochondria in our cells remain healthy
and highly functional um and generally
that's prevention so uh our Paleolithic
ancestors uh rarely if ever had cancer
rare it would be very rare and how do we
know this because um Albert schwitzer
humanitarian Physicians studied
primitive tribes that live according to
their traditional ways uh where cancer
was extremely rare cancer exploded in
those in those tribes when the Great
American diet lifestyle entered entered
their their uh environment and then you
get superfat demented cancer type type
two diabetes it's clearly clearly
related to diet and
lifestyle uh but but people who live
according to Paleolithic ways have low
blood sugar a lot of exercise and they
have um they have to be burning ketones
our Paleolithic ancestors because they
had no highly processed carbohydrates in
the environment they eat mostly meat uh
which is very doesn't jack up uh glucose
very high uh they had no sweet Foods or
processed carbohydrates maybe maybe
fruit during seasonal times when it
would be ripe they might be able to
raise some some blood sugar but they had
a lot of exercise and they ate foods
that were very low in carbohydrate
content and they would not have cancer
because we see that in tribes that live
according to traditional ways so um
highly processed carbohydrates lack of
exercise stress poor sleep all allow the
body to go into a state of dis
homeostasis leading to mitochondrial
damage which can be leading to uh not
only cancer but dementia type two
diabetes cardiovascular disease all
these chronic diseases are the result of
metabolic D homeostasis as the result of
an of an inappropriate diet and
lifestyle an inappropriate diet is
mostly related to highly processed
carbohydrate food that spikes the blood
sugar and keeps it up yeah that's right
that's what we call high glycemic foods
we can eat carbohydrates like some
plants uh vegetables and things they
will have carbs but they can be complex
carbohydrates um that it doesn't Spike
right away the spike comes from the
glycemic index of the food that you eat
so if I Spike Sugar by eating a highly
processed carbohydrates with minimal or
or Zero nutritional value it causes my
insulin to spike the insulin spikes
right after you put the and drives the
the sugar into the cells and Insulin
becomes insensitive if you keep doing
this and then you start to collect all
this fat because the sugar is being
driven is forming fat fat creates
inflammation in in excessive amounts of
course and uh you put yourself on the
path for chronic disease cancer being uh
the worst one because that'll kill you
uh if you don't know how to and then so
so you have inappropriate way um to to
inappropriate response to a disease that
can be prevented and in one of your
prior interviews you've mentioned that
your colleague inul have used the
metabolic therapy in combination with
the standard therapy and that led to
better outcome and lower dose of
chemotherapy did I get this correct as
you absolutely correct the the the the
idea though is that if you if the body
is in nutritional ketosis and we and we
develop the glucose Ketone index
calculator to allow people whether with
or without cancer to know whether or not
they're in nutritional ketosis
nutritional ketosis can both prevent
cancer and help to kill cancer cells uh
along with glutamine targeting so we we
found that uh a glucose Ketone index of
2.0 or below puts tremendous metabolic
stress on the tumor cells making them
more vulnerable to
chemotherapy uh which can be delivered
in much lower dosages so collateral
damage to normal tissues comes much much
less because the tumor cells are now
super vulnerable uh to chemo because
they're very they their their
fermentation metabolism driven by
glucose and glutamine is weakened so
they are on the threshold of dying so
even a a lower dose of chemo even a
lower dose of radiation even a lower
dose of immunotherapy any of these
traditional more traditional or
standards of care will work so much
better with so much less toxicity if the
body is in a state of nutritional
ketosis because that puts tremendous
pressure on the tumor cell survival so
you don't need to use so high of a
concentration of radiation or chemo to
kill the tumor cells and our friends in
istambul are experimenting with these
conditions right now and they're the
ones who are relaying this information
to me and could you tell us why is the
metabolic therapy so effective because
the cancer cells require the two fuels
the fermentation fuels um and they can't
grow and a and they can't grow without
these two fuels so they can't use
anything else so metabolic therapy
restricts those two fuels uh killing
many many tumor cells and making other
parts of uh treatments more much more
effective so without those fuels you
can't make new lipids proteins or
nucleic acids you you have that you need
building blocks number one you need
building blocks and number two you need
energy and with without energy nothing
can grow nothing can live um how do we
know that because uh we we know cyanide
is a poison um uh people who take
cyanide are dead instantly uh because
cyanide shuts down all the energy in the
cell okay you die without energy you die
cancer cells require energy but they use
alternative form they use substrate
level phosphorilation basically a
fermentation metabolism rather than
oxida a phosphorilation and we have
found and published that uh the
glutamine can generate energy in the
mitochondria using a substrate level
phosphorilation or a fermentation
metabolism to replace the Lost energy
from oxidative phosphorilation
interestingly enough if a person has a
tumor this was done by warberg and
others and us too um and give the give
the animal the cyanide uh it it kills
the mouse or the host but not not the
tumor the tumor can live without
oxidative phosphorilation so that tells
us it must ferment what does it ferment
glucose and glutamine how do you know
this because we tested it we we took a
we tested all the different amino acids
to see which one is the most effective
and glutamine is the most effective so
you target the glutamine and take away
the glucose and transition to ketones
the tumor cells die they they can't live
uh uh and then um then you know how to
manage the cancer it's it's not that not
that complicated it's made it was made
to be complicated massively complicated
because people thought cancer is a
genetic disease and there's millions of
different kinds of mutations making a
bewilderingly complicated disease but
when you look at it based on the energy
and bioenergetics it's a very simple
disease it's driven by fermentation and
then you say well well if that's known
why don't we target fermentation
metabolism in cancer patients and manage
the disease and the answer is because
the field thinks cancer is a genetic
disease it's a they're brainwashed into
thinking it's something other than what
it is and therefore we get 1,700 people
a day dying needlessly from this and
around the world as well so uh um I mean
it's the most it's the greatest tragedy
in the history of medicine I I I I just
once people wake up to realize what I am
saying people are going to just be so
mortified by the fact that we had it we
had a proc we have we have a waste right
now to drop this death rate and and keep
keep people alive longer and we are not
doing that thank you very much can you
stop tumor grow just by lowering the
blood sugar it doesn't stop growing
completely Because unless you target the
glutamine it's going to continue it can
live it might not grow very much it
grows much slower so you can you can
take a very angry and inflam rapidly
growing tumor and lower the blood sugar
and the tumor grows much slower it
becomes less angry and less inflamed uh
but it doesn't necessarily go away
completely uh uh we've had people that
have had these tumors in their body for
years um always there but never going
away but not not uh so aggressive or or
lethal I remember I read a paper where
you published where the higher the blood
sugar the faster the tumor grows and the
lower the blood sugar the slower the
tumor grows uh yes we were the first I
think to publish this back in 200 uh two
uh where we show a direct relationship
between how high blood sugar is and how
fast the mouse tumor in the brain would
grow so we showed that the lower the
sugar the slower the growth and the
higher the sugar glucose of course the
faster the tumor growth then we started
to see many of similar kinds of studies
done in humans with all kinds of
different cancers breast cancer colon
cancer brain
cancer the the higher the sugar the more
rapidly the tumor would grow
and the lower the sugar the less rapidly
the tumor would grow um and it was
published in many many papers uh showing
this relationship uh between the level
of blood sugar and and how fast the
tumor would grow and this is why I don't
understand how some oncologists or even
Physicians would say that glucose has
nothing to do uh with the growth of the
tumor absolutely does it's in the
literature a big problem another reason
why we're not making any advance
is the people who should know the
information never were never told of the
information nor do they read the
scientific literature um so that's
another reason why we have this uh
catastrophe in cancer is that people
don't either don't read the scientific
literature or even worse don't even
understand it so um and then we have the
tragedy what blood sugar level Did You
observe for the tumor doesn't grow that
that goes to the glucose Ketone index
calculator and uh the forget um the
brain is largely responsible for taking
in most of the sugar in our body okay
the
brain um however the brain can switch
over to Ketone bodies when you lower
blood sugar so but the cancer cell can't
switch over so this is the difference so
many of our heart and muscles and things
like this they can all switch to ketones
and fatty acids while you lower blood
sugar but the brain even when you lower
blood sugar uh the brain will take
what's available before any other organ
will the last group of cells that will
get the sugar will be the cancer because
if you exercise muscle takes sugar out
of the bloodstream to build glycogen and
burns it in the muscle the brain takes
whatever the what's available and the
cancer cells are the last one to take
what's left so even if you lower your
blood sugar down to um a low GK glucose
Ketone index is what we call it uh what
the oh you say well you didn't get rid
of all your glucose that's true because
the muscle in the brain need it uh
before the tumor cell needs it so the
last the last cells to get it are the
tumor cells so when you lower down the
brain and the muscles are going to take
what little you have in there and the
tumor cells are going to get much much
less and they're going to die so uh
exercise and low gki puts a tremendous
uh uh stress on the availability of the
tumor cell to
and then you simply come in with a drug
that targets the glutamine and you
Slaughter these tumor cells slaughter
them so um and you keep the body healthy
while you're doing this and gradually
the tumor gets smaller and smaller and
more indolent and more indolent where a
surgical procedure or radiation
procedure or some final procedure within
immunotherapy could could pot
potentially cure the disease potentially
but you put the metabolic pressure first
and then you come in with the other
strategies to remove the final survivors
and which type of exercise do you find
better and lowering cancer cardio or
strengthening or a combination of both
probably a combination of both um and
you measure the glucose Ketone index
while you're doing while you're doing
this as well um so yes it's a
combination of both because you're
moving muscles muscles take in glucose
from the bloodstream so the more
exercise you give whether it's aerobic
or or static weights or whatever you
want to do um it's all effective M and
Can You Reach This ketogenic status
without the ketogenic diet through other
diet like fiber rich diet well you can
get it's again how what what diet do you
need to bring your gki down the glucose
Ketone index um as I said any diet can
do that uh if you're a carnivore you can
do it just eating meat uh because
there's very no carbohydrates in the
meat very very little um so but you'd
have to then slowly restrict uh because
you have to get where you going to get
your ketones uh yes fat would certainly
bring it in but um your body will start
mobilizing fat stored fat in our atpo
sites and they will go to the liver the
fat fatty acids and the liver will make
Ketone bodies so um if you don't bring
carbohydrates into your body uh you have
to then generate carbohydrate from
burning other fuels in the liver and the
liver will produce a small amount of
carbohydrate uh through glucon
neogenesis but the brain will gobble
that up if you have low glucose the
brain and the muscles will gobble the
tumor cell will not be able to get much
uh from from that so but you can you can
get a low gki with a Mediterranean diet
uh carnivore diet a a a a vegetarian
diet a fish diet doesn't make any
difference what you eat you would just
measure your blood GL Ketone index the
glucose Ketone index a ketogenic diet is
simply a diet that has a lot more fat
than protein or carbs that's one kind of
diet but a car a carnivore diet and then
and then each person is a unique
metabolic machine a metabolic machine so
what what a diet that may work good for
one person may not be good for another
person that's why we use the gki as a
marker to determine uh whether you're
going to put pressure on your tumor
regardless of what diet you eat and
people say oh I can't get a gki low you
said 2.0 I can never do well then go on
water fasting for crying out loud
that'll bring it down you know it'll
bring and then add stuff back and see oh
I'm starting to eat this particular food
and it's not Rising my gki then good
that that's a kind of a food all the
foods regardless must be balanced in
macro and micronutrients as well so you
don't cause a an imbalance and if
someone cannot tolerate ketogenic diet
and wants to reach this ketogenic State
what can they eat you know it depends on
each person some people can't tolerate
ketogenic diets but they can tolerate um
a carnivore diet or a fish diet uh it
depends on the person what is the best
way to keep the person uh relatively
happy or not stressed out and killing
cancer cells and everybody has to
determine that for themselves they
always ask me oh what he never said what
to eat I cannot tell you what to eat
because you might be different from the
other guy he oh he said to eat that and
I ate that it didn't work and he ate
that and work just use your glucose
Ketone index with the keto Mojo meter
and you'll know what you can and cannot
eat that varies from one person to the
next
so as I said if you have a diet that's
balanced appropriately in micro and
macro nutrients and low and highly
processed carbs it's probably pretty
good for you eat little bit of it and
see what it does to your gki and then
you'll know whether or not you're in the
zone of of therapeutic ketosis which is
healthy keeping your mitochondria
healthy reducing oxygen-free radicals
and reducing the risk for cancer and
other chronic diseases is there a diet
that lowers glutamine diet will not
lower glutamine exercise can lower
glutamine a little bit but no diet can
lower glutamine diet can lower glucose
but a diet cannot lower glutamine
therefore it's a press pulse and the
pulsing comes from drugs what are some
of the agents that lower glutamine and
which one did you find to be the most
effective well you can lower we actually
found that the drug six deoxy norleucine
it looks like
glutamine that's the in our in our in
our research that's the most effective
so far um which targets the ability of
glutamine to be metabolized to glutamate
so it blocks the blocks that first
metabolic step uh that drug was in fact
used for many years on children and
people with different cancers but it was
discontinued because they said it was
toxic uh it's not as toxic as the Red
Devil docar rubison and all these
horrible chemical
um uh it's off patent so people can't
make money on it uh but the other thing
too is when they did use Dawn which is
dioxid norleucine they never targeted
glucose they did they didn't do it right
they didn't do it right and they didn't
transition the body to
ketones um and therefore the the most
important drug that we know of to manage
cancer is not being used because they
didn't do it right so uh but there the
drug companies are making other drugs um
that can Target glutamine and these are
coming on the market but they don't
Target the glucose and put the body in
nutritional ketosis when they're using
their drugs so the effect efficacy of
these drugs can be some efficacy for
sure but they're not going to be maximum
unless you target the glucose when the
body is in nutritional
ketosis how is that hard so hard to
understand the the I'll tell you one
reason they want to make money on the
drug and they have to show that the drug
by itself has therapeutic benefit but if
I put so I it's more important to make
the money than it is to keep the person
alive this is the bottom line so uh
people have to know that uh I'm more
interested in seeing how long I can keep
people alive because that to me tells me
we know what we're doing and it's a use
of different drugs different diets
different procedures that help each
person as a unique individual live
longer
uh with a stage four cancer or any kind
of cancer for that matter so I'm more
interested in keeping people alive than
making
money I have a job I make money for my
job I don't need to make a billion
dollars all I have to do is keep people
alive what's wrong with that yeah well
thank you for that that's why so many
people follow you do you find the
metabolic therapy to be effective in
certain types of cancer and to be less
effective in other types of cancer I
think it works with all kinds of cancers
equally um maybe you have to modify
slightly we just published a big paper
for mod managing gleo blastoma terrible
brain tumor a very very comprehensive uh
protocol treatment protocol with myself
and Dr Thomas duer is the first author
and many of our colleagues MDS and phds
and nutritionists on the same paper and
and uh we we we went through all the
different ways in which we can uh reduce
uh uh the growth of uh rapidly growing
growing gleo blastoma and and put it
under under control um but the reason
why the diet targets glucose and
glutamine while transitioning the body
off to ketosis since every major cancer
that we have looked at has the same
problem metabolically they can't uh
they're dependent on a fermentation and
they have defective number structure and
function of mitochondria I predict and
where it has been done in lung cancer
colon cancer uh uh breast cancer yes
metabolic therapy will be the standard
of care for all major cancers once once
the ideological Dogma once we get rid of
the Dogma so uh uh that cancer is a
genetic disease will start to really
come after it all these major Cancers
and we will drop the death rate
significantly uh if if this were to be
started in the way we have defined the
and and designed the the treatment
protocol and I believe I read an article
where you looked under the electron
microscope for the majority types of
cancer uh could you tell us what were
your observation well I didn't do that
but I went back for those people that
did do that uh the work on the electron
microscopy you can't see mitochondria
very clearly with a light
microscope um even at 400x 400 times you
can't you can just see specs and things
but in order to see the organel really
close up you need electron microscopy so
when electron microscopy became uh
available in the 1950s and 60s and70s
when when they constantly perfected this
instrument um many Pathologists and
scientists were simply excited to look
at the different structure of of organel
under the electron microscope and and
they didn't really um know the
significance of what they were looking
at most of them some of them of course
did uh but you found
mitochondria that were broken you found
mitochondria that were abnormal in
structure uh many many you have
sometimes you have no very very few
mitochondria other times you have
tremendous numbers but they're all
morphologically abnormal and in in our
understanding of biology structure
determines function so if the structure
of the organel is abnormal the function
of the ab uh organel will be abnormal
and what is the function of the the
organel mitochondri is to produce energy
efficiently so the cell can maintain a a
homeostatic differentiated State um so
all the tumors that we have looked at uh
that others have looked at and reported
uh uh have all shown abnormalities in
the number structure of the mitochondria
and then when you take the mitochondria
out of the cell and you begin to study
the mitochondria separately you find
it's functionally abnormal as well so
that's telling us that the very organel
responsible for maintaining homeostasis
is abnormal causing the cell to fall
back on a fermentation dependent on
glucose and glutamine so so that's the
linkage structure determines function
when the structure of the organel is
abnormal the function will be abnormal
and that will cause the cell to rely on
a fermentation metabolism to grow
disregulated cell growth driven by a
fermentation metabolism because the
organel that's supposed to maintain
differentiation uh and and metabolic
homeostasis is damaged is abnormal and
could you talk to us please about the
experiment where they took the nucleus
from a cancer cells and put it in a
normal cell and took the nucleus from a
normal cell and put it in a cancerous
cell nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments uh were were were telling us
that if you take the nucleus uh out of
the tumor cell re isolate the nucleus
from the
cytoplasm of a tumor cell and uh put
that nucleus into the cytoplasm of a
normal cell and then put that cell under
the skin of a rat uh you don't get you
don't get uh uh any growth you don't
whatever whatever happened uh suppressed
the ab whatever was in the nucleus that
was thought to cause disregulated growth
was was was reduced was removed on the
other hand if you take the
nucleus uh uh of the normal cell uh and
put it into the cytoplasm of a tumor
cell and then put that under the skin of
of the Rat you got disregulated growth
on a big tumor so uh clearly what it was
telling us is the mitochondria in the
cytoplasm not the mutations in the
nucleus that are causing the
disregulated cell growth uh and this has
been done both in vitro in culture
dishes as well as in living animals uh
frogs and mice uh all of these things
and then on the other hand if you take
an aggressive tumor and remove the
mitochondria from the cytoplasm and put
in new mitochondria from a normal cell
you get a suppression of the
disregulated growth on the other hand if
you have an indolent tumor growing very
very slow uh and you remove the
mitochondria and put the mitochondria
from the aggressive tumor into the
cytoplasm of the indolent tumor the
indulin tumor now becomes super
aggressive so clearly disregulated cell
growth is due to abnormal ities in
mitochondria structure and function not
in the mutations in the nucleus that
supports that it's a metabolic disease
rather than a genetic disease that's the
strongest evidence that we know of and
then we also know that you have to
realize in the genetic uh Dogma that uh
you have many thousands of different
kinds of mutations that can be found in
tumor cells and not all the mutations
are considered drivers of the
disregulated growth only some mutations
were thought to be drivers they call
driver because that mutation is more
important than the passenger mutation
which just doesn't do anything so what
we're now finding so the the genetic
field said oh cancer is a genetic
disease but only uh due to driver
mutations so uh if you have uh these
drivers that would lead to disregulated
cell growth um but now new information
is showing that normal cells in our body
you me uh we have mutations in driver
genes that are not causing any
disregulated cell growth so that's
another piece of evidence that
completely dis disengages the gene
theory that we have driver mutations in
our body that don't form cancer um and
now we have some cancer cells that have
no mutations so yet they're disregulated
in the cell growth not too many very
rare but it does happen um so so clearly
what this is telling us the new nuclear
mitochondrial transfer experiments the
the findings of driver gene mutations in
normal cells all of this is telling us
it's it's the cancer cannot be driven by
disre by by mutations disregulated cell
growth is not caused by somatic
mutations and the and the germline
mutations that are risk factors all of
the germline mutations disrupt
mitochondrial energy function so clearly
origin of cancer is it's a mitochondrial
metabolic IC disease and the mutations
that we see in cancer cells come from
the abnormal metabolism of the
mitochondria so reactive oxygen species
are carcinogenic and mutogenic and they
are coming out of the abnormal
mitochondria and they cause the nuclear
gene mutations and broken chromosomes
and this kind of stuff so clearly when
you put all the parts together cancer is
a mitochondrial metabolic disease driven
by a fermentation metabolism involving
glucose and glutamine and an in ability
to transition over to fatty acids and
Ketone bodies how do we know that I did
the experiments I showed the evidence
and publish the evidence in the
scientific literature and then you say
well how come nobody wants the because
they're Dogma the Dogma the brain can't
think when it's
indoctrinated and the jobs and the money
and the billions and billions of dollars
locked into a fail Theory and we have
1,700 people in the United States dying
every day because the brain can't get
out of the dogmatic view it's it's a
ideological dogma and I tell you every
this I show you all the evidence I did
the experiments I show the efficacy
can't be true can't be
true tell you tell me what's wrong with
that picture you tell me what what's
wrong with this picture I mean it's
difficult to argue against anything you
said and you have explained it very
clearly do you have this sort of
conversation with oncologist and what is
their reaction towards these hypothesis
they get pissed off a lot of them get
angry they get they get angry because
they said I never heard this and never
taught this in medical school oh because
you haven't heard it in medical school
that means it can't be true and some of
them are very good they say well we got
to learn we have to know what you guys
know and I said yeah that's going to
drop the cancer death rate that's going
to manage the disease lot of reasons for
why what I said cannot be accepted you
have a multi-billion dollar industry
running on a somatic mutation theory of
the disease and it's not that and yet
everybody's making a lot of money on
this and then you come along and say
it's a completely different disease than
what you thought oh how are we going to
make these changes but don't forget
we're not getting rid of standards of
care uh we're still keeping radiation
chemo surgical mutilation s surgery can
be done as a final stage for the Cure uh
because you can cure cancer with surgery
if you can take out the we want to bring
the tumor down uh make it less angry
small like a warp something really small
less less angry less inflamed and then
you can surgically debulk it so surgery
is still part of this yes we can still
use radiation yes we can still use
chemotherapy you just have to know the
order in which you need to do these
things and that requires a retraining so
um and understanding what you need to
shrink your tumor down make it indolent
weak and now come in with other
therapies to potentially deliver a cure
uh metabolic therapy is not likely to uh
C Produce a cure but it can can
certainly allow the combination of all
of the therapies together to lead to a
cure so but right now we're not doing it
we're not doing it correctly we're using
therapies uh upfront uh based on a
sematic mutation Theory uh that's not
not effective you got to do you have to
rearrange the order in which you attack
this tumor in the right way you want to
make sure there is no toxicity in the
treated patient there they just don't
know how to do what we what we already
know how to do and once we once our word
gets out you're going to see incredible
responses on these on these patients so
uh is it going to be quick no it's not
going to be quick it could take you six
months to a year to to manage cancer in
the in the correct way but when you
emerge when you emerge from the
treatment you'll be much healthier than
you were when you started not only will
your cancer be under control but your
whole body your whole body will be
healthier and for those who wants throw
their risk of cancer without advanced
tracking they don't want to get pricked
multiple times a day it wouldn't have to
be multiple times a day uh we're we're
working that out yes they have uh
technology is improving we already have
the free Libra for measuring blood sugar
and you can do you can measure it it
sticks to your arm and it measures
glucose in real time and then it goes to
your cell phone so you can actually see
your blood sugar at any given time eat
something eat a banana watch it go
through the roof you know eat eat a a
small piece of butter and watch it go
down um but we don't have the Ketone uh
yet um the monitor for Ketone you still
have to prick your finger that's why the
glucose Ketone index the keto Mojo and
maybe some other meters uh can measure
the two together and I know people don't
like to prick their finger to I don't
like it either but um you know people
who have diabetes they have to do this
uh many times a day sometimes but now
they have the pre the Libra uh and I
think it once we have a free Libra
Ketone meter then you can get realtime
gki on your on your phone and uh that
will tell you uh then you'll have no
right there on your on your cell phone
you can actually eat something and watch
it change on the cell
phone then you'll know what you can and
cannot eat and you believe this might
come out soon uh GCM type of machine
that detects Ketone on top of blood
sugar well if people want to make a lot
of money on the machine they certainly
would be driven to make it fast that's
not my Realm don't know how to do that I
I just I just build it the the structure
of what needs to be done but technology
improvements will have to work out these
meters and those guys are going to make
a billion dollars once they get the free
Libra Ketone together on the blood that
that you because you can not only manage
diabetes you can manage cancer dementia
you can put yourself in a completely new
state of health doing this but I I don't
know I yes there are people out there
believe me there are people out there
that want to develop this as quickly you
know we develop that
but we couldn't make any money on it
it's unbelievable you can't patent a
formula can you believe this you can't
patent a formula but you can take that
formula and put it into a machine that
will do and you can patent the
machine but I I didn't do any of that so
again our goal was to keep people alive
well I mean that was was our goal let
the let the um let our Industrial
Technologies uh work uh and build all
those kinds of things and when you're
trying to stop the cancer is the aim to
get rid of it completely slow it down U
shrink it I think that well the go the
goal of course is to eliminate it
completely um uh we we are not there
yet um I I can't be sure we have a
number of people who have have used
metabolic therapy and are declared no
evidence of cancer um uh we uh we had
one dog actually that was uh uh cured of
of mass cell tumor I published that
paper the do you only know you only know
when you're cured is if you die from old
age and cancer doesn't come back um you
got a tumor uh you use metabolic
therapy and uh it goes away but you're
always worried that it might come back
and you live to be 98 years old and you
die from old age and the cancer never
come back then your children will tell
you you were cured from the cancer
because it never came
back but you know it's interesting with
metabolic therapy
if known you can you can use it to
prevent cancer um of course you're not
going to be you don't need to Target
glutamine to prevent cancer you just
need to keep a lower gki and switch from
high carb to to a to a a fat Ketone uh
so so you can keep your mitochondria
healthy as a prevention you can you can
do this as a prevention um and then if
you were to get cancer of course you can
come in with metabolic therapy now
targeting the glutamine uh and making it
a little bit more effective in the
strategy but it's still a metabolic
approach and uh so people can use
metabolic therapy to both prevent and
and treat cancer and what is your
opinion about intermittent fasting and
do you do any intermitted fasting
yourself oh I do it I do it yeah oh sure
I do a lot of exercise and and do you do
12 to 16 hours or what type of fasting
do you do I do 182 hours so you eat at
night H and then you don't eat again
until the afternoon um you know you go
out and do a lot of exercise I'm trying
to do what I can uh to keep uh the Beast
away uh but but but but if I do get
cancer uh yes I will have to embrace uh
my own Theory my my own therapy and and
and what we do is we'd have to go on a
low carbohydrate diet for 12 14 days get
my gki down and then I will take Dawn uh
uh and my friends will deliver it to my
physician friend friends uh will deliver
it to me and I will do exercise and I
will keep my body as health as healthy
as I possibly can and hang on hang on
because you know you're killing these
tumor cells a and um you know you go
down to the to the you get your blood
work make sure your blood work all your
blood and you should never be at a blood
homeostasis all the markers should be in
the zone I keep a low g a low gki water
only fasting together with zero
carbohydrate diet and then pulse the
damn glutamine targeting p the glutamine
targeting and then hang on Baby hang on
and see what
happens um and and now of course we
still were quite quite healthy uh eating
natural grains uh uh through the natural
carbohydrates complex carbohydrates and
the exercise that we got um but now we
are saturated with highly processed
carbohydrates uh which are refined
sugars and these kinds of things and
we're and we're less and less active in
our daily lives and we have more and
more uh uh carcinogenic compounds
forever chemicals PL
microplastics uh uh toxins in the air uh
so we're bar we have a very poor diet in
lifestyle and we're barraged by
chemicals from the environment which I
think is
contributing uh to the earlier and
earlier onsets of cancer together with
the
diabetes the Obesity epidemic the
Obesity which is striking all major
societies now um and uh this puts us at
risk for all kinds of chronic diseases
uh cancer being the number one uh uh
chronic disease which can be also
significantly reduced all you can reduce
all these risk factors for cancer and
diabetes by bringing your body back into
a state of nutritional ketosis
intermittent fasting exercise all these
kinds of things and I know people don't
want to do that they they don't want to
do that they they enjoy eating them
highly the pro but I I think there's
nothing wrong with natural uh
carbohydrate Foods sugar natural sugar
rather than highly processed foods
everybody likes a pastry every now and
then you know a pizza whatever it is um
but but you but you have to uh know
measure gki while you're eating the
pizza you might be might not be so
enthusiastic to have another
slice even these animals they love the
pizzas and donuts right you have talked
about it before in the San Diego Zoo
yeah the in San Diego so so not only zoo
in San Diego the also the zoo here the
Franklin Park Zoo here in Boston I did
both I talked to the vets in both of
them the bonobos they have these Pym
chimpanzees uh and orangutangs and uh
but once a week they take a little honey
and they put it on a small dish and they
hide the dish in the different parts of
the the cave soon as the temperature and
the hear the the bonobos hear the guy
out there and they know kind of what
time of the week they're going to put
out the dish with the honey on it little
dish they come flying out of the cave
running around looking under the book
the bushes and the Rocks looking for
that one little dish that has the honey
on it and they start licking it off the
off the dish so I said what why don't
you go down to the doughnut shop the
Dunkin Donuts get a box of jelly fills
and corers and all throw that into the
bag oh she they'd be out there eating
those things so fast but she said but
the the veterinarian said it would be
animal cruelty you damaging their health
damaging animals Health but not for
us you put the damn bonobos at risk for
chronic disease by giving them Donuts
that humans are eating every day
yeah you know there is a neuroscientist
who did a study in Africa where these
baboons or monkeys uh were eating
leftovers from Human so they were eating
um highly processed carbohydrates chips
and biscuits and interesting love these
animals started to develop type 2
diabetes and hyper lipidemia metabolic
syndrome and obesity and all kind of
metabolic diseases now you want to T
they oh you can't do that experiment
because it's animal cruelty again animal
cruelty but yet we're doing all this
stuff to ourselves uh and all smiling
about it and then we get all these
chronic diseases but human cruelty yes
yes and isn't it insane that these
animals start to develop metabolic
syndrome and type two diabetes and
hyperemia absolutely absolutely but
we're not allowed to do those
experiments uh on controlled groups of
of monkeys because monkeys are sacred
animals of some sort you know and we do
the experiment on ourselves we already
know what's going to happen type two
diabetes metabolic syndrome uh cancer uh
um macular degeneration cardiovascular
disease dementia we're going to get all
those things we already know what's
causing it but we just choose not to not
to uh stop uh the cause and there are
these cases where someone is healthy
exercise fit eats healthy and then
develops cancer but you know when people
say I'm healthy I exercise I do we don't
really know uh did they measure their
gki every day was their gki I don't know
what they say I'm a healthy guy I run do
this what's your gki I don't know well
how do you how do you know you're really
healthy how do you know you're in a
nutritional ketotic State because I said
nutritional ketosis is what keeps the
mitochondria healthy because that's the
way we evolved as a species we always
were in a state of nutritional ketosis a
guy who exercises I don't know what he's
eating uh what is gki is show me a guy
who's maintained a very low gki eating
no highly processed foods does a lot of
exercise and then develops cancer uh we
want to know about that guy but people
say oh I'm healthy who who's tell you
you're healthy you telling me you're
healthy you don't I don't know I didn't
look at your physiology oh my blood work
looks good uh and maybe he is but what's
your gki oh it's about 50 or 40 no no no
you're not in the healthy zone so um so
but anyway we we need to know that we
don't and the answer is we don't have
any scientific evidence to prove that a
guy who looks healthy uh is actually in
a state of nutritional ketosis when he
developed the cancer uh and we need to
have we need to do that we need to look
at all these things more uh and that
also generally those guys that appear to
be very healthy generally have lower
risk in general than the guy that's
morbidly obese so uh we know that
there's a pretty strong relationship
between that and you have talked about
microplastic and environmental toxins is
there a way to avoid this harmful
substance yeah you know it's going to be
hard I mean we everybody I'm even
drinking a a bottle of water here in
plastic right how do I know how many
microplastics are in there uh but they
seem to be permeated through our entire
food chain um Plastics and I they were
all all of us no matter what country we
live in uh we're going to be exposed to
this and then there's these forever
chemicals that are out there these are
chemicals that our body can't break down
uh and they collect in tissues so you
got
microplastics you got forever chemicals
you got a poor diet and lifestyle
creating inflammation making the
microplastics or the chemical carcinogen
potentially worse you put all that
together mitochondrial dysfunction uh
transition from o oxidated
phosphorilation to substrate level
phosphorilation driven by glucose and
glutamine disregulated cell growth and
cancer there are certain environments
where we have a lot of contamination in
the in the atmosphere and in the soil
and in all the other things that we put
ourselves into and you know these all of
these things impact negatively on our
physiology leading to mitochondrial
dysfunction and the whole slew of
chronic diseases as the result of that
even in the animals themselves they're
injecting them with hormones and
antibiotic and the geomor soil and
pesticides and the vegetables and all of
the environmental toxic
these things has to be cancer causing to
very high extent right AB absolutely uh
now if you have what we call or um free
range uh cow um where they eat just
grass uh and then they find out oh it's
gy I I did you ever eat a a free range
cow uh Buffalo or any of these kinds of
things uh the color of the meat is
actually different so you have a cornfed
cow the meat is tender it's juicy I I
didn't realize this but when cows eat
cow did not evolve to eat corn the cow
the Buffalo they eat grass they eat
grass they don't eat corn so they eat
corn they get massive acid indigestion
and they have to keep regurgitating the
corn and then you give the cow a lot of
ant acids and the cow eats the ant acids
to neutralize the acidity in its stomach
and it makes the meat very very tender
but the free range Buffalo or cow the
color of the meat is a darker red a
darker red uh because it's more natural
now if they're eating natural grasses
that have no herbicides in there and
alal and all these natural grains uh
then your meat is going to be very uh uh
free range it's going to be more organic
than the cow that's being driven by
hormones uh and all the corn and cornfed
beef oh I gotta people say I got to have
cornfed beef cornfed beef it's so juicy
it's so great and it it is I have to be
honest with you uh and and and it's and
it's more tender and more juicy than the
same piece of cut of meat on a free a
Freer range cow so um so Freer range is
more organic more less contaminated than
the cornfed or the hormonally produced
cow you're 100% right this is all of
this is in our food chain and we taste
it we think one is better than the other
but generally one may not be as healthy
as the other and the majority of these
harmful things are unfortunately
unavoidable unfortunately a lot of it is
unavoidable because we can't we we just
don't have access uh it's we have
convenience convenience convenience
everything is convenience so nobody
wants to walk far to get something they
want to drive there in our country you
drive up to the hamburger shop or the
doughnut shop and you don't even have to
unas the car you just sit there and they
pass it through the window uh think of
our Paleolithic ancestors when they
having to go out and kill some Buffalo
all day long beating the hell out of
this thing chopping it up and then some
guy they go you can drive into it hand
you the beef right through through the
window you have to do anything here we
have delivery also that's right they
deliver run to the door with the phone
with
that door Dash you just call up on the
phone and all of a sudden the guy comes
to your house with all this food you
wonder why you have cancer and diabetes
and dementia you know I mean all the
things that we're suffering with are the
result of our technology and I've told
people this over and over again our
technology has evolved so much faster
than our bi ology we are still
Paleolithic it takes millions of years
to change your biology but our
technology has rapidly evolved to the
point now where we have we're at a sync
we're at a sync with the natural world
and yeah door Dash that's the greatest
thing for people who are living a
traditional lifestyle uh raising their
own chicken growing their own vegetables
this has to be healthier right determine
the dictionary that came out a few years
ago Oxford dictionary called Loco for Lo
Loco for is a term to describe foods
that are grown naturally in the local
environment so people would have a
garden uh or a community garden that
would be fertilized by manure uh and all
the soil would be uh uh natural and the
V vegetables that would be grown in that
or or Freer range chickens or animals
that would be in the local environment
it's called local for which is
essentially the way we evolved we were
Lo all local fors because we would kill
and eat things in our local environment
um which is much you know you have to be
out every every day picking something up
from the ground uh natural and bring it
back into the house you know people
sitting in traffic and they're all
freaked out they come in the house they
don't want to go out in the backyard and
start pulling stuff out of the ground
they want to just throw something into
the microwave but but uh the local for
is that what you just ask what how do
you prevent that people eating food from
the local environment grown naturally in
in your local environment uh uh that
certainly will give you the nutrition
that will keep your mitochondria as
healthy as as possible and of course the
foods to try to reduce are the highly
processed carbohydrates which are all in
packages I I even have a twinky process
carbohydrates baby has all almost
completely uh nothing here is is natural
or healthy yet people not only that they
deep fry these things and then put
powdered sugar on top of them can you
believe this and they smile while they
them and if the mitochondria gets
damaged is there a way to reverse it is
it irreversible are you trying just to
preserve the functionality um we and
warberg both said there is a a threshold
upon which before there's a certain
destruction in the mitochondria it uh it
can be reversed up until this threshold
point which we're not really sure about
in which time it becomes irreversible I
am not in the business of trying to
reverse cancer mitochondria I kill them
I kill I'm not a friend of the tumor
cell I'm the worst enemy that the tumor
cell can have my job is to kill the
tumor cell however if we can protect the
normal cell from ever becoming damaged
mitochondria then we can prevent that
well once you have irreversible damage
to the mitochondria I I'm not in the
business of res of of um re-educating a
mitochondria because it can turn back it
could recidivis it can turn back on you
at any time I'm not interest that we get
rid of them killed them get rid of them
from the body uh that's my view that's
my view of managing cancer we prevent
cancer but if we get cancer we kill them
uh and we kill them by starving their
fuels that drive their disregulated cell
growth which is glucose and glutamine
while transitioning the body over to
nutritional ketosis and then come out at
them that way and eventually Purge from
your observation when you target these
cancer cells do they disappear shrink
slow down what happens with these cancer
cells we we we did we did this so um uh
all three all three of what you said
they they shrink uh uh they die uh in
different you can see the dead cancer we
we did that you can look at dead cells
under the microscope and see the dead
cells uh when we did glucose glutamine
targeting uh with Dawn uh we saw massive
numbers of dead of of dead cells but but
we uh dead cancer cells of course in our
preclinical system um and we saw some
cells in other cases in humans where
they a lot of them were killed and uh
but they not they were not all dead and
that's where you have to move the the
the the process forward to see if we can
kill the rest of them but here's the
situation if you kill a lot of cancer
cells all at the same time you have all
these dead bodies dead cancer cell
bodies laying around in a particular
tissue uh our immune system is designed
to come in and and um gobble up and
remove dead cells that's part of what
our macrofagos do maccrage is a type of
immune cell that will uh wound be
effective in wound healing so we kill a
lot of cancer cells uh the problem is if
we are too aggressive on glutamine
targeting we prevent our immune cells
from picking up the dead bodies the dead
cancer cells that's why it's absolutely
crucial that when you target glucose and
glutamine and kill a lot of cancer cells
you have to pull the glutamine targeting
off and let our immune cells get back to
their normal job and picking up the dead
bodies if you're too aggressive on the
glutamine you kill a lot of cancer cells
but prevent the immune system from
cleaning up the micro environment
therefore leading to an infection and
making another kind of a problem that
you shouldn't have in the first place
again this is we have such a in a broad
knowledge of of cancer uh we are able to
track down those cells and kill them uh
without harming the rest of the body
when we know what to do and how to do it
because I've looked at all these things
I have answers to your questions mainly
because I did the experiments next door
with my with my with my colleagues and
we exactly do what you asked what
happens to these cells where do they go
what's going on with these things yes we
looked at them and we saw exactly some
of them are shrunken some of them are
outright killed some of them just hang
on uh we didn't kill them all so that's
why we're still perfecting the procedure
thank you for that could you share with
us the story of Pablo Pablo is a good
person he passed away um just recently
uh last August uh from his third uh
debulking surgery he came to me in 2014
with a gleo blastoma and uh he was a
young man I think he was only 24 years
old um he he had diagnosed with a gleo
blastoma and uh he didn't want chemor
radi he didn't want any kind of a
therapy at that time we were pretty
really very very new in in what we
understood in fact we didn't even know
completely about targeting glutamine at
that time we knew it was necessary but
we didn't really know how to do it too
much in human but he just went on a
really low gki he got his glucose Ketone
index down he ate avocados and eggs and
no carbohydrates and his tumor shrunk um
it it became indolent uh and they said
well if he didn't have radiation and
chemo he was going to be dead in 12
months uh he didn't want radiation chemo
so he said I'll I'll I'll try the
metabolic approach and um uh he said he
they told him it was an inoperable it
was an inoperable tumor that he had to
have radiation chemo to control it he
said well you can't cut it out I don't
want radiation I don't chemo so what
happened is he went on a metabolic the
and then after two and a half years of
of just metabolic the tumor became uh
less angry it started to grow slow but
when it grew it became more
circumscribed and the neurosurgeon said
I think we can get this tumor out so uh
he went for a surgery in
2017 uh they took the tumor out and then
they said they think they got it all so
he he goes back and starts eating
carbohydrates again and then all of a
sudden this what was thought to be not
there something starts growing again uh
and and then he immediately went back on
metabolic therapy and then the tumor
continued to grow he never targeted
glutamine he just targeted the glucose
the tumor continued to grow again for
another three years and in
2020 uh he had another debulking surgery
for a for a tumor that was considered
inoperable and then um it continued to
grow and grow again
and then in in
2024 which was last year uh he had
another debulking surgery and um and
then we talk we spoke to him in August
uh after his third debulking surgery and
uh we were laughing he was very very
healthy uh we were joking around I said
Pablo you were you were supposed to be
dead dead 10 years ago nine years ago
you were supposed to be dead he got
married he had two children um and we
were laughing hysterically because he
was diagnosed with an inoperable tumor
that had now been operated on three
times so uh then what happened um we
didn't know to our knowledge I said you
know he could outlive me I I I I said
that you know you keep living so long I
said you're supposed to be dead you're
you're a guy with a gleo blastoma Living
10 years years that's what they told him
right in the that's what they told him
in the beginning when he went yeah but
then he I guess the neurosurgeon said
you we still have a tiny little piece of
tumor left and we think we can get that
out and he didn't tell me or my
colleague Dr du and um and then we got
it email from his wife saying that Pablo
just had another surgery and I said wow
I didn't know that and then we have a
picture of him coming out of the Ice uh
he has both thumbs up he's smiling um he
he talked to his wife he was chatty he
was really great and that night he had a
cerebral hemorrhage from the surgery so
he died from surgical complication
rather than the cancer surgical problem
rather than the cancer so I don't know
how long po if he didn't have that last
bit of surgery I don't know how long he
could have survived he certainly wasn't
dying from the cancer that's for sure
did he receive any glutamine lowering th
no uh he did not uh he was against all
kinds of drugs so he just wanted to do
what was working uh and I told him I
said you got to get some embed we know
now these parasite medications can
Target glutamine with much less toxicity
they're not as strong as Don uh but they
do also work and he didn't take anything
other than the metabolic therapy so I
think we can do much much better on
other cancer patients if we if we do
what we know how to do I think we'll
even get much better results but the
fact that you got a guy with a GBM he
also had an idh1 mutation which produces
a metabolite called two hydroxyglutarate
which actually targets glycolysis and
shuts it down so he had a therapeutic
gene mutation uh which I think the field
needs to spend a lot more time on
they're always trying to Target this and
even some of these fool fools trying to
Target uh idh1 which is actually a
therapeutic uh T I don't want to go down
that path because you have no idea how
how little knowledge people have of the
biology of cancer and they just do
stupid things when they shouldn't be
doing those kinds of things and surgery
can be effective in curing cancer
especially if the cancer is smaller
localized right the more you can cut out
and the more successful you are at the
bulking that is removing the tumor the
the longer you're going to live uh you
can cure cancer with surgery there's no
question about it if you are able to cut
the whole tumor out no matter where that
tumor is and you get every single cell
and it's all circumscribed in one area
you cure the person there's no question
about it it's the metastatic it's the
spreading of the tumor cells into the
local surrounding environment or into
other organs that makes it a much more
difficult disease and we discovered that
that cell is the macras itself it's a
member of our own immune system
corrupted to use glucose and glutamine
in a disregulated way so I know this
this I know how to kill metastatic
cancer cells our metabolic therapy will
do it quite effectively but when you
think cancer is a genetic disease and
you're looking at all this crazy stuff
you're not going to make the the you're
not going to drop the death rate any
significant way yeah every now and then
you get somebody who responds really
well but the majority of people don't
respond they end up dead uh one way or
the other either they're killed by the
therapy or they're killed by the tumor
uh either way uh the probability of
long-term survival after a stage four
metastatic diagnosis is not good and we
think we can keep these people alive a
hell of a lot longer because we
understand the biology of the problem we
understand this I've busted my ass for
decades looking at this stuff I'm a
biologist genst biochemist I know we
look at this stuff and I talk about it
with leaders on the field my friend
kristos chinopoulos from SEMO Weiss
University World expert on mitochondrial
substrate level phosphorilation you got
to work with the people that know stuff
when you're working with people that
know stuff you can make major advances
in science when you're working with
people who don't know anything and have
Mis formed information you're not going
to make major advances just that simple
it's just that simple is there one study
where the evidence was so overwhelming
if there is an oncologist or a physician
listening to us that there is one study
that you can reference them to you have
to you have to look at all the studies
together and you have to be able to
connect the dots and that's what I did
okay I spent a lot of time looking at
warberg theory of cancer uh I proved
that he is correct and I also showed
where he went wrong with our colleagues
where he made m not he made mistakes and
he didn't know that there was a a second
form of fermentation inside the
mitochondria itself so now we have
cleared up uh a lot of the mystery of
what cancer is based on OT wiberg's uh
seminal seminal work uh I also as a
Genesis knew right away uh pretty clear
once I started doing the research myself
and then looking at the nuclear transfer
experiments and all this other stuff I
knew right away this can't be a genetic
disease um so I I once you eliminate one
of the big stumbling obstacles in the
way then you can really start focusing
on what the real issues are and then we
realize we can put all the dots together
and we develop a therapy that we
published that will eventually become
the standard of care how long will that
take I don't know we already published
the paper we already set out the
protocol what to do and how to do it and
there it sits in the scientific
literature right there so you want to
make a t read that paper have the
oncologist and and physicians assistant
and the whole uh operation follow what
we are saying you will drop death death
rates uh within the next several years
here we did we publ what more do we want
it what more can I do what more can we
do we already showed what's going on we
have some big papers some of one of our
papers just came out the other day it's
already got 16,000 views for the first
time showing that cancer cells are
getting energy inside the mitochondria
from a fermentation mechanism the field
did not know about this that's why the
has to be targeted we have an outline we
have a clear outline supported by hard
scientific evidence that we can drop the
needle move the needle significantly in
dropping the death rate of cancer the
problem is that it it's a these are not
the the the interference with what I'm
saying has nothing to do with science it
has to do with policy and acceptance of
the scientific facts not the science
itself the science to my mind is quite
solid uh and it's based on Decades of
research yeah and are there ongoing
clinical trials at the moment no there
are no clinical trials because I told
you the hospitals think cancer is a
genetic disease and they haven't figured
out how to how to make a profit on them
right now the Medical Institution is not
is not in the position where they want
to change the standard of care it's very
very profitable people making a lot of
money hospitals pharmaceutical companies
oncologists they make a lot of money
treating cancer and now you come in and
say what are you going to do water only
fasting and use repurposed drugs who's
going to pay for this you know the only
the only people to benefit from metabol
are the patients the the system yet is
not yet ready to accept a therapeutic
strategy that's effective and not toxic
uh and and and and and cheap you know
bottom line it's a massive expensive
industry and everybody is doing really
well financially except the patients so
uh um no you're not going to change
until you until there has to be an
outcry on the part part of the world
population to say we want metabolic
therapy the problem is that the field
doesn't they're locked into a an
ideological Dogma thinking it's a
genetic disease and therefore the field
all are trying to Target genes and then
you have 1,700 people a day dying as the
result of a misunderstanding of what the
nature of the disease is it's not
complicated said it's when is it going
to overtake it should never ever
overtake heart disease ever we can drop
those death rates by by 30% in 5 years
50% in 10 years uh once you start
learning how to do metabolic therapy and
running the clinics that should be the
way it should be done now if people
don't want to do that uh uh so it's it
has to go from policy it has to go yeah
I just heard the other day iy was saying
oh we're g to make vaccines and we're
gonna do all this kind of crazy stuff
stuff now they're talking we had we had
big Watson computer one time uh he could
beat anybody in chess and he buil be win
all these games so they brought him in
to figure out cancer is the gene
mutations that might be causing cancer
and he was reaming smoke coming out of
the machine and doing all this kind of
stuff and then he made recommendations
to the oncologists the oncologists were
smart enough to know the recommendation
from this super intelligent computer uh
would have killed cancer patients so uh
no one told the machine that cancer is
not a genetic disease that the goddamn
machine was too stupid to know that so
uh AI is only as smart as the guys that
are trying to work with it so if if and
then if you go on the web
and say ask ai ai is cancer a genetic
disease uh yes cancer is a genetic
disease then you go on to AI is AI is
cancer a metabolic disease yes cancer is
a metabolic disease it can't be both at
the same time it's either one or the
other is the earth the center of the
solar system or is it the Sun the center
of the solar system you ask ai ai would
say oh no the Earth is the center of the
solar system and the sun revolves around
the earth and the AI what about the the
sun oh the sun is the cell center and
all the planets revolve around the Sun
so so I mean again it comes down to the
theory if the treatments are based on an
incorrect Theory the outcome is not
likely to be uh effective and that's
what we see as we said and right now the
pharmaceutical companies are gearing up
that in
2050 uh you know one out of two people
are going to have cancer more and more
young people are going to have cancer
the profits are going to be enormous in
k i we can drop that we can prevent all
that stuff from happening right now
today have to do re-educate the oncology
Community to know that cancer is a
metabolic disease uh driven by glucose
and glutamine and they can transition
over to keton so therefore transition
the body to ketosis Target
simultaneously glucose and gluin and
bring in your standard of care
procedures when you need them um and
that's the solution to the cancer
problem or a a a rational um solution
based on hard science could you talk to
us little bit about hyperic oxygen
therapy and can
the austino and I and others uh you
can't if you bring your glucose Ketone
index down you put a lot of pressure on
the tumor cells they'll produce Ross
reactive oxygen species from the oxy the
high press oxygen and then when they're
in the low glucose and you give them the
glutamine while they're in hypobaric
oxygen it's a facilitator to kill cancer
cells it's a replacement of of rad
radiation and chemo in some ways and it
can make radiation and chemo even more
even significantly more powerful by
increasing react of oxygen species which
will kill the cancer cell and how often
is the glutamine therapy given is there
like a duration and frequency That's The
Cutting Edge right now it it's called
dosage timing and scheduling we are
still working on that and that's
interesting because all of our funding
for for doing this is philanthropy and
private foundations because uh uh do
figuring out doses timing and scheduling
is what they call oh this is this is not
sexy science you know this this is not
cutting Ed sexy science but it'll keep
damn people alive longer that's what it
will do but that has to be determined
for humans how long can we hit them with
the glutamine targeting at what drug and
what scheduling uh and and that has to
be trial and error with each patient and
then once we see how patients respond
then we can imple implement it in a more
uh a more outlined way based on our
experience but we don't know gender you
you have issues of of of of age and
gender from people um and these all have
to be worked out with Do's timing and
scheduling we just know what to do uh
and generally how to do it but the
actual specific of it's glutamine
predominantly because we don't have to
worry about glucose um but it's that
that and what better drugs do we how
many different drugs will do the same
thing um targeting glutamines uh
effectively without causing toxicity
what dosage when do we schedule this how
was the timing uh uh when the patient
reaches a certain point then we come in
and do this this has to still be worked
out and we do it pre-clinically first in
the models that we developed and then we
get some idea and then I translate it
immediately over to the clinic my my
physician friends and they will say oh
you know uh we found out if you do it
this way and that way it little better
come back into the preclinical system
and perfect feed forward feedback feed
forward feedback until we perfect the
system you're not going to have
everything right done we have all the
concepts down we just don't have the
actual um the Precision Precision
metabolism for each person well
Professor C thank you very much for this
incredible interview I have certainly
learned a lot and thank you for all of
your incredible work and research and
everything you do and I want to quote
something you have said in a prior
interview and I'm just going to read it
you said when the science comes you
cannot suppress the truth and I'm
documenting the evidence and this is
exactly what you're doing so thank you
very much once again and I hope all of
your hard work um lead to the results
and outcome that you are hoping for
certainly hope so and and thank you very
much for uh asking really important
questions that can help uh people
understand uh what the issues are and
eventually you're right things will will
change for the for the better and that's
the hope that we have